Angband-v4
==========

Welcome to the changelog for Angband-v4. This file tracks changes at a 
high level. 

For a more detailed record of changes made, go to 
http://trac.rephial.org/query?status=closed&milestone=4.0

For an even more detailed record, go to 
http://github.com/angband/v4/commits/v4-master.


Gameplay changes
================

 * Base objects. Base weapon and armour objects have been renamed to 
avoid most adjectives and the word "of". In particular, adjectives 
specifying materials have been removed (Mithril, Adamantite, Wicker, 
Lead-Filled, Fur, Leather, Metal, Dragon Scale). Also removed: Elven 
Cloaks, Blades of Chaos, Scythes of Slicing, Maces of Disruption. These 
are all still in the game, but no longer as headache-inducing base 
objects. They are generated using affixes.

 * Ego items. The concept of an "ego item" has been split into two 
concepts: affixes and themes. For a detailed explanation, go to
http://trac.rephial.org/wiki/NewEgos.

 * Affixes. All generation of magical items is now done using affixes, 
which are contained in lib/edit/ego_item.txt. Affixes can affect any 
properties of an item: dice, sides, base ac, weight, plusses, pvals, 
flags, but generally only change one or two things. (TODO: extent, 
number.) Affixes come in four types (make, material and quality are all 
prefixes; suffices are all magical mods) and six levels (bad, average, 
good, great, uber, artifact-only). An object can have up to MAX_AFFIXES 
(currently 8). Some affixes replicate the old "low-end" one-trick ego 
types (of Resist Acid, of Slay Dragon, etc.), but there are many more. 
Known affixes are browseable in the ego knowledge menu.

 * Themes. Themes are collections of affixes, which are acquired 
randomly during item generation. Themes are detailed in 
lib/edit/ego_themes.txt. Once an object has a theme, it may not acquire 
any further affixes. Themes are what used to be known as the "high-end" 
ego types (Elvenkind, Westernesse, Gondolin, etc.). (TODO: themes don't 
currently show up on the knowledge menu.)

 * Artifacts. Artifacts look much the same as before (though some base 
items have been renamed, as noted above). But they are now generated 
using a unified system, so there is no distinction between an artifact 
ring, amulet or light source and an artifact weapon or armour piece. 
Artifact rings, amulets and light sources no longer need "dummy" 
INSTA_ART entries in object.txt.



User interface
==============

 


Coding changes
==============

